- Start-up Bloomberg. Hit WEIF <GO> to get an idea of where equity futures are. Although I sit on the Fixed Income side, we look at Equity futures as one measure of market sentiment. The equity future prices on the screen are all green, meaning equity futures are up and stock markets are expected to go higher. 
- Next, I Hit TOP <GO>, and scroll through the top news headlines.
- After that, I hit Hit ECO <GO> and refresh myself on the economic data coming up. It’s the first Friday of the month and that means it’s payrolls. Non-Farm Payrolls, NFP for short, is one of the biggest pieces of economic data that we watch, no just in rates, but across all of Fixed Income and Equities.
- Morning Meeting Time. The morning meeting is where Sales, Trading and Research get together and go through a quick recap of the markets. Sales talks about what their clients are doing. Each trading desk, swaps for me, treasuries for someone else, options for another trader, talk through the dynamics in their markets. Sometimes, traders highlight trading opportunities that they want the salespeople to discuss with their clients. Research provides an overview of reports they have written.
- As a fairly new hire analyst, it’s the VP and MD sitting to the left of me that are executing most of the trades. My job is to manage the hedges we need and to keep track to the trade blotter. The trade blotter keeps track of all the trades we have done for the day including client trades and trades with other trading desks at my firm.
- Pretty quiet morning with everyone waiting for the payrolls number. Payrolls is one of the big economic data points that will likely move markets. 
- Our economist (who sits within research) goes over the hoot (speakerbox) as we see the payroll number being released by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. The number of jobs added flash on our Bloomberg screens in red. The number beat market expectations. The market is in a ”Risk On” mode meaning investors are feeling good about the markets and willing to take risk. Investors want to buy stocks and not bonds. Treasury bond future prices are dropping, meaning yields are rising.
- My ears are focused on the hum of the trading floor. Salespeople are asking for firm quotes on the trading phone (turret). Below is a picture of what a turret looks like. Each person on the trading floor has a button and you can directly speak to them over their speaker box without waiting for them to pick up the phone. So far, these as just quotes. I’m watching the phones, listening to the quotes, waiting for the magic word done.
- After a bit of waiting, the first trade is done. Meaning we’ve gone from quoting to agreeing to a trade. The salesperson said done to my VP, and my VP looked over at me and told me to blotter the trade and hedge the trade risk (called the delta). The VP went off to the next trade quote, while I recorded the details in to my trade blotter and began to hedge the trade risk.
- Hedging the trade. My swaps pricer calculates the Futures equivalents of the trade, how many futures are equivalent to my trade and then I electronically trade the equivalent treasury “TY” futures I need to match the duration on the swap. TY futures are the futures ticket. They are supposed to be a 10 year future but currently have a much shorter duration, so we just call them TYs.
- The salesperson sends the trade recap to the VP and me. E-mail with the key details and serves as a written receipt of the trade we did over the phone. It also has the sales credits the salesperson receives for bringing that trade in. I take a quick look, recalculate the sales credits in the excel scratchpad. The numbers don’t add up. The salesperson got the DV01 wrong (DV01 stands for Dollar Value of 1 basis point). I ask him to fix it, and he sends another trade recap over.
- I scarf down my sandwich pretty quickly while scrolling through emails and double checking trade recaps.
- 2:00pm – Things slow down a bit.
- 3:00pm - Start drafting the closing commentary for the week. Payrolls. Notable trades. Draft the Bloomberg message for my MD to edit and send out.
- 3:45pm – Run a report on where my positions are. I’ve hedged my positions for the day using treasury futures, but I do have some basis risk between LIBOR and Treasuries that I need to check.
- 4:00pm – Report is done. I bought some Eurodollar bundles to hedge my LIBOR basis risk. Eurodollar Bundles are a series of Futures that lock in LIBOR rates for me for days in the future.
- 5:00pm – We are done for the day. Time for after-work drinks with some of the rates salespeople and traders. It’s a good way to unwind but also ask questions you typically don’t get to during the day.
- 5:30pm – Quick call from the middle office about one of my trades missing a sales booking. The salesperson hasn’t booked it yet and was running late. I sent the salesperson a Bloomberg chat from my cell phone. The salesperson trade booking came in a few moments later.
- 6:00pm – We’re still at the bar, and the middle office finishes up the P&L calculation for the day. Today’s P&L numbers are good. The MD orders one more round of drinks to celebrate, and we all head home.
